Infosys TechCohere -DC 
Celebration Hackathon 
ChallengesChennAI Crew –
Smart Preordering and Billing for Food Court
ChennAI  Crew
Yushey Tusi – yushey.tusi@infosys.com
Vinothkumar - VinothKumar_R@infosys.com
Suresh Kumar C - sureshkumar.c05@infosys.comSmart Preordering and Billing for Food 
Court
Despite high footfall, current campus 
food -court systems rely on manual queues and 
disconnected billing. Pain points include:
•Long peak -hour queues are detrimental to 
productive time causing poor employee 
experience.
•Lack of real -time statistics for tracking 
consumption, wastage, and footfall.
•Limited analytics for demand forecasting, 
item velocity, and peak -hour staffing.
•Fragmented tracking of employee benefits 
and vendor sales which may cause 
reconciliation overhead.Context, Business Relevance, Business 
Solution
A unified digital food court platform with two personas 
(employee & vendor) that lets employees see live vendor 
availability, preorder, pay via UPI, and pick up with secure 
QR/OTP and accurate ETAs, backed by prepared -stock –aware 
billing to prevent overcharging. Azure OpenAI and ML 
personalize menu suggestions, generate product/nutrition info, 
interpret customizations, and forecast demand so vendors and 
facilities reduce wastage, improve efficiency, and enhance 
employee experience.TECHNOLOGY STACK
Frontend: React.js & 
React Native + Tailwind 
CSS
Backend: Python + 
FastAPI
Auth: Entra ID
Storage: PostgreSQL , 
Redis (cache) , S3 Bucket 
(images & receipts)
ML Models: Prophet & 
XGBoost
AI Model: GPT -4 (Azure 
OpenAI)
Notifications: Firebase 
Cloud messaging
Hosting: Render
 Payment: UPI gatewaySolution Architecture
KEY HIGHLIGHTS OF SOLUTION
Smart Preordering & Digital Billing: Employees browse real -time menus, place orders via UPI, and receive a digital bill with “QR  + OTP” for secure 
pickup. Live ETA and Notifications feature available.
AI-powered Food Concierge (Azure OpenAI): Application collects diet preferences and current appetite information from customer v ia chat 
function in order to recommend food items. T o protect customer’s privacy, they will have right to share the data to enhance t he ML algorithm.
Smart Substitution suggester: If an item is missing or has run out of stock, Application suggests an appropriate substitute 
using GenAI.
AI-generated nutrient information: Nutrition information, ingredients used, description, etc. if not filled by the vendor will b e 
generated by AI
Inventory planning: Using Machine learning models, the application forecasts the demand and presents the forecasted footfall and demand for 
the item every day (using historical sales, day, weather, events, festivals). It also generates number of ingredients that ne ed to be ordered.
Customization request option: Employees will be able to add their preference or customization notes (for eg: no onion, more sambhar , etc) to their purchase 
and the vendor will be prompted to respond to the request. Sometimes, vendor can also request additional cost to be charged i f required to fulfill the request.
Guardrails: Purchase thresholds will be set for each item and if ever customer would require to book more than the maximum li mit, a permission 
would require to be taken.
Takeaway -ready Configuration: Items can be flagged as takeaway eligible, enabling planned office -to-home orders without hurting dine -in 
availability.
Ratings for menu items: Ratings will be collected and stored for the menu items in order to help customers make better decisi ons.
Analytics and governance layer: Dashboards for facilities and vendors: demand trends, wastage, fast -selling SKUs, peak hour 
heatmaps, threshold breaches, approvals; Insight loops from AI models continuously improve stocking, staffing, and menu 
decisions.Future Enhancements
VisionAI to track wastage: Using Computer vision to capture images from garbage and track the wastage (for 
example: y grams of rice, x grams of dosa, etc.) and classify the waste for better monitoring.
Optimal Menu suggestor for vendors: Collecting diet information and preferences by users (only with consent) 
and using the information to suggest food choices and combinations to the vendors using Advanced AI.
Translator to local language: User’s custom preferences could be translated/interpreted to the vendor in their 
local preferred language.
Voice -based ordering: Enablement of voice -based ordered in Indian languages using Azure Speech.
Anomaly detection to capture any possible threats to security.
Seat tracker: Using Computer vision identifying space available in the foodcourt .
Agentic AI to monitor hygiene and sanitation compliance keeping in track of cleanliness records and expiration 
dates of ingredients.THANK YOU!